## Notes

This document holds the summary of BIDS Reproducibility and Open Science
Working Group meeting on January 15, 2015. Additional information can be found
in the google docs, but this document exists in order to preserve those notes
in an open, transparent fashion.

### Members as of January 5th, 2015:

- Philip Stark
- Fernando Perez
- Erik Mitchell 
- Nicholas B. Adams
- Kyle Barbary
- Katy Huff
- Fatma Imamoglu
- Justin Kitzes
- Karthik Ram
- Beth Reid
- Falk Schuetzenmeister
- Daniel Turek

### Potential agenda

Here is a potential agenda for the meeting (and still open for suggestions, please feel free to edit):

#### Summary of Past Conference Calls 

A brief summary of the past conference calls between the other institutions (including the Asilomar Summit results)

Philip Stark updates:
- Philip @pbstark just went to git a talk on repeatability and reproducibility in phenotype studies. (link: )
  - what will be measurable?
  - survey will have too much non-response
  - and, its a lot of work to check repeatability. See this study: [http://reproducibility.cs.arizona.edu/v1/index.html](http://reproducibility.cs.arizona.edu/v1/index.html)
  - should do ethnography instead, but need some metrics or reproducibility 
  - should there be a badging system associated with this?
- Phil has also been speaking to Science Open
  - new open-access journal to see if there is any interest in hosting code


#### Whitepaper Status

Status of the reproducibility white paper (+zotero group)
The deadline has passed at this point and we're not sure it would have been a 
worthwhile endeavor for us anyway. Three people ended up writing WPs and we 
never saw much feedback for any of them.

#### Case Studies 

A sorta-Handbook: 
A collection of reproducibility success and failure stories (format: book, 
online videos). An idea emerged at Asilomar. Make contact with the 
Ethnography group about this.

- Justin: emulate 'Beautiful Code' or 'Beautiful Architecture' kinda book
  - [Beautiful Code](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596510046.do)
  - [Architecture of Open Source Applications](http://aosabook.org/en/index.html)
  - similar to [Beautiful Architecture](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/9780596517984.do)
- get 50 reproducibility research stories focusing on practice (even more than tools)
- Philip: examples should come from different disciplines, universities, and career stages
- Philip: also ask questions about why this is important to researchers at the top. 
  - Ensure the job of evangelism is being done. Focus on value of reproducibility not just scolding "you should do it this way!" 
  - Reproducibility = more citations, jobs for students, etc.
  - BITSS Garret Christensen jointly with Center for Open Science working on a [manual on reproducibility](https://github.com/garretchristensen/BestPracticesManual?utm_source=Berkeley+Initiative+for+Transparency+in+the+Social+Sciences&utm_campaign=98443f3ee6-Newsletter+January+2015&utm_medium=email&utm_term=0_40c0cba966-98443f3ee6-%5BLIST_EMAIL_ID%5D&ct=t%28Newsletter+January+2015%29&mc_cid=98443f3ee6&mc_eid=%5BUNIQID%5D) 
  - Nick knows Garret Christensen. Happy to bring him in for collaboration if helpful
- Fatma: This can lead to a workshop on reproducibility
- Katy: maybe structure according to emerging themes of reproducibility practice
  - Katy: If we can reduce the collected information into emergent patterns, we could make something like "Design Patterns for Reproducible Science"
  - This would be similar to "Handbook for Reproducible Open Social Science.."
  - Nick: maybe a nuts and bolts for reproducibility (Philip: e.g. using issue tracker in GitHub)
- A focus on 'pain points' and overcoming them
- Falk: 
  - Model project, funny research question we all could pursue, for the sake of creating a paper about reproducibility
  - What can we learn from Software Engineering? Continuous Integration as gold standard for reproducibility? Project runs on the push of a button. Fork and add new data, rerun. Limited to smaller projects. E.g. https://travis-ci.org, "scientific unit tests"
  - Economic dimension of reproducibility: How to ensure reproducibility if running the code costs hundreds of dollars? Scalability and Reproducibility (downscaling?)
  - Reproduce-ability vs. incentives for actual reproduction: Who actually did reproduce research of someone else yet? 
- How to publish it?
  - open 
  - legitimate publisher
- Philip summary:
  - collect examples:
    - different disciplines
    - different universities
    - different career stages
  - motivation:
    - document, to be able to measure progress
    - capture emergent themes
    - identify common pain points
    - show the benefits of repeatable open reproducible science
    - M/S (milestone?) reports
- Justin:
  - will send an email
  - bring the other institutions in as soon as possible
  - also, bring in Charlotte/ethnography
  - Katy
  - Fatma
  - Karthik
  - Daniel
  - Falk
  - Kyle
  - CC: Philip
  - CC: Charlotte


#### Status of 10 Steps diagnostic tool

Status of “10 steps / questions” towards reproducibility, the diagnostic tool

[http://uwescience.github.io/reproducible/guidelines.html](http://uwescience.github.io/reproducible/guidelines.html)


#### Status of Curriculum

Status of courses and course materials to teach reproducible practices?

- Urgent: Stats 157 needs an instructor

- Karthik: Find a way to avoid replicating the work that other groups are already doing. For e.g. there was a reproducible research hackathon/unconference in December that I couldn't attend due to a conflict (kicking myself. See list of people that attended and their bios
  - [info](https://github.com/Reproducible-Science-Curriculum/Reproducible-Science-Hackathon-Dec-08-2014/wiki/Participants). They did a lot of work that would overlap with our goals. 
  - [Their repo](https://github.com/Reproducible-Science-Curriculum/Reproducible-Science-Hackathon-Dec-08-2014)
  - Ciera Matrinez, one of the participants and an organizer, gave this update on the rOpenSci community call yesterday: [pres](http://reproducible-science-curriculum.github.io/rr-ropensci-talk/#/) 

- reproducibility curriculum, workshops (Fatma (@famai) is point person)
  - interface with Cathryn about undergrad data science curriculum
  - wait on the output of the case studies and emergent practices in order to determine what these workshops should look like
  - bring in the reproducibility in neuroscience discussion group?

#### Lexicon

What is reproducibility anyway?
- BITSS addresses this too
- Katy: [WSSSPE](http://wssspe.researchcomputing.org.uk/) also has ideas about reproducibility in the context of sustainability
- example: Conference on phenotypes and genotypes of mice and zebrafish
- preproducibility, reproducibilty, repeatibility, etc. are all different terms. 
- Katy: example, see the debate over these terms in relation to the Repeatability in [CS repeatability study](http://reproducibility.cs.arizona.edu/). 
  - The actual discussion of DEFINITIONS, is cited [here](http://cs.brown.edu/~sk/Memos/Examining-Reproducibility/) 
- Maybe best to have a workshop?
  - Karthick (@karthik) and Daniel (@danielturek) are in charge
  - held at BIDS, but with virtual participation from other campuses

#### Future Ideas 


Consider hosting a repro WG conference in 2015, analogous to the one offered at UW last year.
- is this what karthik and daniel just volunteered to do?  (not exactly... maybe the lexicon can be one day of the larger workshop.)
- what was it like at uw?
  - gave some good stories and context, talks, a few breakouts
  - a whitepaper was written (link?   )


#### Next meetings 

In calendar. Main meetings will be once per month. Subgroup meetings will be 
more often.

